# Digital Distancing

In the post-[GDPR](https://www.wired.co.uk/article/what-is-gdpr-uk-eu-legislation-compliance-summary-fines-2018) world, it seems that every online interaction comes packaged with constant reminders of data tracking. For the first time in the digital age, our data can be experienced with the most rudimentary digital verbs: VIEW your data, DOWNLOAD your data, DELETE your data. Previously taken in secret, data now comes hand in hand with consent; but have we become any more in control of our digital footprint? Is it our awareness, our potential for intervention, or is it our passive consent which gives us this shaky semblance of control?

<i>I propose a tool which records data by following, among other things, a user’s mouse, keystrokes, and current application.</i> Using this data, the tool will create visual representations of a user’s computer usage, producing images which illuminate paths, hotspots, and textures. Rather than tracking tasks and analyzing trends for the purpose of creating a sellable product, the tool tracks gesture, space, and time. The recorded data serves no 'functional' purpose and exists like radio static in the background of our digital environments. By centering the minutia, and by creating mass amounts of it, the tool seeks to reverse the conversation, serving as a platform for reflection, commentary, and retort towards our relationship with this intensely personal, yet otherwise unnoticed data. These untraceable maps between windows, images, and applications reduce all interactions to data, and beg the question of what it means for data to have a function.

Further, what inferences—any—can be made from such data? Can we guess as to age of the user, their technological comfort, or their amount of focus? How are these assumptions informed by our technological biases? Who defines digital behavior, and what differentiates it from our physical behavior? As we socially distance and learn to be hyper-aware of how we move through public, physical spaces, how are we (re-)learning to move through our private, digital spaces?
